<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">

<head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/base.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/global.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/guide03/resources/css/global.css" />
    <title>9. Risk Profiling</title>
    <meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
</head>

<body>
    <h3>9. Risk Profiling</h3>

    <p>You may encounter wildlife under many different circumstances. You may find wildlife in or on:</p>

    <ul>
        <li>Containers</li>
        <li>Trucks</li>
        <li>Vehicles</li>
        <li>Vessels</li>
        <li>Aircraft</li>
        <li>Mail</li>
        <li>People</li>
        <li>Premises</li>
        <li>In the forest</li>
    </ul>

    <p>Now consider how many containers enter and leave your country every year? How many passengers fly into or out of
        your airports or how many trucks cross your border? Trying to find wildlife or other contraband amongst all of
        these circumstances is very difficult without some way to narrow your focus.</p>

    <p>To help you identify the potential trafficking of wildlife it is important that you develop or utilise a risk
        management system. This system will help you identify shipments or passengers that pose a greater risk of
        having wildlife products through analysis of risk indicators. Examples of risk indicators include:</p>

    <ul>
        <li>Declared goods are not consistent with type of business of consignee/consignor</li>
        <li>High shipping costs for declared low value consignment <em>(shipment is not economically viable)</em></li>
        <li>Shipment is a heavier (or lighter) weight than is normal for the declared goods</li>
        <li>Description of goods on the shipping documents does not match Harmonized Systems (HS) code (<em>e.g. using
                HS code with lower rate of customs import duty</em>)</li>
        <li>Declared goods are known to be used as cover materials for smuggled goods (<em>e.g. scrap plastic, tea,
                coffee beans, fish, handicrafts, etc.</em>)</li>
        <li>Incomplete/false company names/addresses</li>
        <li>Fraudulent use of genuine company details</li>
        <li>P.O Box or hotel/ suite/ apartment address is listed</li>
        <li>Mobile phone number listed as contact point</li>
        <li>Loading/destination ports used should be consistent with consignor/consignee address</li>
        <li>Importer/exporter is recently established</li>
        <li>First time importing/ exporting</li>
        <li>Check for any known adverse compliance history (of any parties involved – importer, exporter, transporter,
            logging company)</li>
        <li>Passenger movement history</li>
        <li>Passenger route of travel</li>
        <li>When the passenger was issued their passport</li>
        <li>Funds carried by the passenger</li>
        <li>Time in country and reason for visit</li>
        <li>Intelligence</li>
    </ul>

    <p>This list is not exhaustive and often risk indicators will be species specific, however it represents a good
        starting point. If you detect one or more of these risk indicators you should consider undertaking an
        inspection or search.</p>

    <p>As mentioned in section 2, there will be many shipments of wildlife that are afforded protection under CITES
        that can still be traded legally. However, criminals will often utilise look alike species or falsely declare
        products to illegally transport wildlife and they may use a CITES permit to facilitate this.</p>

    <p>Risk indicators for CITES permits include:</p>

    <ul>
        <li>Validity date has expired or been altered</li>
        <li>Source code is incorrect or unfeasible</li>
        <li>Appendix number is incorrect or unfeasible</li>
        <li>Customs export endorsement is missing or incorrect</li>
        <li>Security seal(if there is one) must be in contact with signature and/or security stamp</li>
        <li>Document does not match actual shipment in terms of species/ quantity/ weight</li>
        <li>Scientific name is false or incorrect</li>
        <li>False declaration of origin (e.g. artificial propagation, plantation timber)</li>
        <li>Signs of document fraud<strong>: </strong>forged signature, signs of alteration, incorrect document format,
            incorrect CITES logo/position</li>
    </ul>

    <p>If you detect one or more of these risk indicators on a shipment accompanied by a CITES permit you should
        consider undertaking an inspection of it.</p>

</body>

</html>