<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/base.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/global.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/guide03/resources/css/global.css" />


    <title>2. CITES</title>
    
<meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
 </head>
<body>
<h2><strong>2. CITES</strong></h2>

<p>The Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) is an international agreement between governments designed to ensure that the international trade in specimens of wild animals and plants does not threaten their survival.</p>

<p>CITES works by subjecting international trade in specimens of selected species to certain controls. All import, export and re-export and introduction from the sea of species covered by CITES has to be authorised through a licencing system. This system is managed by your countries CITES Management Authority.</p>

<p>There are 183 signatories to CITES. CITES classifies species in three appendices, I, II, III made up of approximately 5,800 species of animals and 30,000 species of plants.</p>

<ul>
	<li><strong>Appendix I:</strong> Species threatened with extinction. Trade in specimens of these species is permitted only in exceptional circumstances. Examples in the GMsR include the <em>Elephant, Rhino, Tiger, Sun Bear, Sunda Pangolin and Clouded Leopard.</em></li>
	<li><strong>Appendix II:</strong> Includes species not necessarily threatened with extinction, but in which trade must be controlled in order to avoid utilisation incompatible with their survival. Examples in the GMsR include I<em>ndian Star Tortoise, Delacour Langur and the Fishing Cat.</em></li>
	<li><strong>Appendix III</strong>: Contain species that are protected in at least one country, which has asked other CITES Parties in assistance in controlling the trade.</li>
</ul>

<p>There will be many shipments of wildlife that are afforded protection under CITES that will be traded legally. These shipments must always be accompanied by documentation including CITES import, export and re-export permits.</p>

<p>There are no offence provisions contained within CITES. Any offences arising from your investigation must be contained in the provisions of your national legislation.</p>


</body></html>