<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">

<head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/base.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/global.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/guide03/resources/css/global.css" />
    <title>15. Interviewing Suspects</title>
    <meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
</head>

<body>
    <h3>15. Interviewing Suspects</h3>

    <p><strong>When interviewing suspects:</strong></p>

    <ul>
        <li>Have two officers present</li>
        <li>One officer should take notes</li>
        <li>Record the interview wherever possible</li>
        <li>Consider the welfare needs of the suspect</li>
        <li>Ensure that female suspects are protected and that they feel safe</li>
        <li>Consider the need for an interpreter</li>
        <li>If the suspect is a juvenile, consider the need for a social worker or other authorised support person</li>
    </ul>

    <p><strong>Sample Interview Questions:</strong></p>

    <p><strong>Questioning wildlife and forest crime suspects</strong></p>

    <ul>
        <li>What countries have you visited on this journey and where did you stay?</li>
        <li>What was the purpose of your journey?</li>
        <li>Is this yours?</li>
        <li>Where did you get it?</li>
        <li>How much did you pay for it?</li>
        <li>Who asked you to transport this?</li>
        <li>Who do you work for?</li>
        <li>How much money do you make from this work?</li>
        <li>What other income do you have?</li>
        <li>Where do you get your animals?</li>
        <li>How many suppliers do you have?</li>
        <li>How much do you buy and sell wildlife for?</li>
        <li>Where do you keep records of purchases and sales?</li>
        <li>How do you arrange to buy wildlife? How is it transported?</li>
        <li>Who are your customers?</li>
        <li>What are your bank account details?</li>
    </ul>

    <p><strong>Questions of persons smuggling wood or timber products</strong></p>

    <ul>
        <li>What kind of wood is this?</li>
        <li>Where did you load it?</li>
        <li>Who was present when you loaded it?</li>
        <li>Who owns the timber?</li>
        <li>Where are you transporting it?</li>
        <li>Who do you work for and how do you know them?</li>
        <li>How much were you paid to transport this?</li>
        <li>Where is the documentation for this?</li>
    </ul>

    <p><strong>Questions for suspects of forest crime</strong></p>

    <ul>
        <li>Do you have other areas of land?</li>
        <li>Who gave you permission to use the land on which you harvest timber?</li>
        <li>Where are the documents giving you rights to use this land?</li>
        <li>What species of tree do you fell?</li>
        <li>Where do you process raw logs?</li>
        <li>How do you arrange export of logs?</li>
        <li>Where do you file your documentation?</li>
        <li>How much income do you generate annually?</li>
        <li>Where do you keep your company records?</li>
        <li>What major assets do you own? [House, car, savings, investments, other business]</li>
    </ul>

    <p>&#160;</p>

    <p>Try to build up a complete picture of the person’s involvement in the crime and their associates.</p>

</body>

</html>