<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/base.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/global.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/guide03/resources/css/global.css" />


    <title>16. Forensic Considerations</title>
    
<meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
 </head>
<body>
<h2><strong>16. Forensic </strong><strong>Considerations</strong></h2>

<p>Many items of evidence can be subject to forensic examination. Consider the following techniques.</p>

<p>&#160;</p>

<p><strong>Fingerprints</strong></p>

<p>Can be found on many objects, including smooth surfaces (including ivory) and paper. If authorised, take the suspect’s fingerprints when you arrest them, even if they have been taken before.</p>

<p>&#160;</p>

<p><strong>Ballistics</strong></p>

<p>Compare seized ammunition with seized firearms to determine which were used in crime. These items may match other unsolved crimes.</p>

<p>&#160;</p>

<p><strong>DNA</strong></p>

<p>Can be taken from most animal or plant products, particularly fluids such as blood.</p>

<p>&#160;</p>

<p><strong>Chemical Analysis</strong></p>

<p>Examine products such as paint, poisons or other chemicals to look for common characteristics linking crime scenes.</p>

<p>&#160;</p>

<p><strong>Mechanical Fit</strong></p>

<p>Pieces of evidence may fit together in a unique way. These might include offcuts of timber, ivory, skin, or paper.</p>

<p>&#160;</p>

<p><strong>Tool Comparison</strong></p>

<p>Carving tools, saws, knives may match with marks found on evidence such as ivory or timber.</p>

<p>&#160;</p>

<p><strong>Document Examination</strong></p>

<p>Forensic examination of travel documents, identification cards or birth certificates may reveal that they are counterfeits or have been fraudulently altered</p>

<p>&#160;</p>

<p><strong>Handwriting Analysis</strong></p>

<p>Compare the suspect’s handwriting to that found on documents, cheques, notebooks, diaries etc.</p>

<p>&#160;</p>

<p><strong>Digital Evidence</strong></p>

<p>Mobile telephones, Computers, Laptops, SIM cards, portable storage devices and cards may hold valuable evidence of contacts, communications or financial information.</p>

<p>&#160;</p>

<p>Always seek advice from a forensic specialist</p>

<h2>&#160;</h2>


</body></html>