<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">

<head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/base.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/global.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/guide03/resources/css/global.css" />
    <title>11. The Search Kit</title>
    <meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
</head>

<body>
    <h3>11. The Search Kit</h3>

    <p>Once you have identified that you need to conduct a search for wildlife ensure that you have the following items
        at hand to undertake the search (if available).</p>

    <ul>
        <li>Video and still camera with a tripod</li>
        <li>Storage cards (SD)</li>
        <li>External batteries and cables</li>
        <li>Evidence bags</li>
        <li>Exhibit item numbers (can be handwritten)</li>
        <li>Rubber gloves</li>
        <li>Stationary (pens, notebook, markers)</li>
        <li>Evidence Continuity Forms</li>
        <li>Crime Scene Tape</li>
        <li>Protective clothing</li>
        <li>Bolt cutters</li>
        <li>Bags, cages or containers for wildlife</li>
        <li>Reptile tongs</li>
    </ul>

    <p>You will use some or all these items when searching for and documenting wildlife products. It is better to be
        prepared and have them readily available in a search kit.</p>

    <ul>
        <li>If you are dealing with live animals, such as snakes, bears or tigers, you may need experts to assist you
            in handling these animals. You will need to take this into account in your planning.</li>
        <li>You may also be required to seize large quantities of wildlife such as whole logs or ivory, or containers
            that will need transportation to another location. You will need to take this into account in your
            planning.</li>
    </ul>

</body>

</html>