<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">

<head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/base.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/global.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/guide03/resources/css/global.css" />
    <title>3. National Legislation</title>
    <meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
</head>

<body>
    <h2><strong>3. National Legislation</strong></h2>

    <p>The UNODC and its partners have assisted government agencies in the region to draft best practice legal
        frameworks to address transnational organised wildlife crime. For example, in the last few years Viet Nam and
        Lao PDR have introduced new provisions within their penal code to address exactly this issue.</p>

    <p>However, in many countries in this region there are not one, but several overlapping pieces of legislation or
        government decrees that may be relevant to the investigation of wildlife crime. It is important that you
        understand your domestic legislation and your departments roles and responsibilities as this may impact on the
        admissibility of any evidence you collect and your ability to exercise your powers. <em><strong>You should keep
                yourself up to date with the legislation relating to wildlife crime in your jurisdiction.</strong></em></p>

    <p>During the investigation of wildlife crime, and in particular Transnational Organised Wildlife Crime, several
        different agencies may play a role. An importation of wildlife products into your country may fall under the
        jurisdiction of the Customs Department assisted by the Police and/or the relevant Forestry or National Parks
        departments whereas domestic trade in wildlife products may only require input from the Forestry or National
        Parks departments. Other crimes arising from wildlife trafficking such as money laundering and corruption may
        be the responsibility of the Police or a dedicated anti-corruption agency.</p>

    <p>Several UNODC reports may assist you in gaining a greater understanding of the legal frameworks in your country
        and those of your neighbours. These reports can be found here:</p>

    <p>https://www.unodc.org/southeastasiaandpacific/en/resources/toc/wildlife.html</p>

</body>

</html>