<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />


    


    <title>12. Securing the evidence</title>
    
<meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
 </head>
<body>
<h2><strong>12. Securing the evidence</strong></h2>

<p>You should only search for and seize wildlife if you are lawfully entitled to do so.</p>

<p>There are many ways that evidence relating to wildlife crime may come into your possession. It may be as a result of a person search, vehicle or vessel search, searching baggage, a container or searching a residential or business premises. Irrespective of how this evidence comes into your possession <em>you must document the scene and record the actions you take when you seize the digital media device or other supporting evidence</em>.</p>

<p>This evidence may consist of live wildlife or wildlife products but also evidence that helps prove this trafficking. This may include:</p>

<ul>
	<li>Cell phones</li>
	<li>Cargo manifests</li>
	<li>Computers</li>
	<li>Bank statements</li>
	<li>Travel documentation</li>
	<li>Accommodation documentation</li>
	<li>Cash</li>
	<li>Transporter documentation</li>
	<li>Digital media devices</li>
</ul>

<p>Prior to the search you should:</p>

<ul>
	<li>Photograph and/or video the search area</li>
	<li>Draw a map of the scene</li>
	<li>If you have other officers to assist you assign each a specific role i.e. search, exhibit officer, officer in charge and photographer</li>
	<li>During the search you should:
	<ul>
		<li>Search the area systematically</li>
		<li>Video the search</li>
		<li>Document the location where each item is found</li>
		<li>Bag or secure items seized clearly labelling each with a unique identification number</li>
		<li>Create a record of all items seized</li>
		<li>Complete chain of custody documentation</li>
		<li>If you seize live wildlife, ensure that it is safely secured and has adequate access to food and water. You may also need to consult a veterinarian or specialists within your or other government agencies.</li>
	</ul>
	</li>
</ul>

<p>Wildlife specimens may also contain traces of DNA and fingerprints. You should enquire with your Supervisor whether your agency have the facilities to collect and analyse this type of evidence. It may be crucial evidence in identifying suspects where the wildlife was sourced.</p>


</body></html>